Data ejection & request retention console review - HarborTech Logistics

Walkthrough of Redwood Console request-storage toggles, selective telemetry ejection, PII redaction rules, and policy-driven retention. Customer cares about minimal retained request data, SOC2/KMS, and ability to redact / egress logs to their S3 for audits.
Meeting header: 2026-12-20 16:00 UTC | Duration: 47 min | Attendees: Lena Ortiz (Redwood AE), Samir Patel (Redwood SE), Jules Kwan (Redwood Product), Maya Chen (HarborTech CISO), Ethan Park (Platform Eng), Ravi Malhotra (PM), Priya Singh (Legal)

Summary section (auto): quick demo of console toggles for request retention and redaction, discuss legal/ residency, confirm pilot scope and next steps.

00:00 Lena Ortiz: Hey everyone, thanks for joining, afternoon, morning depending on where you are. quick intros?
00:07 Maya Chen: Maya Chen, CISO at HarborTech. We've got a tight bar for PII retention and need to see redaction end-to-end.
00:12 Ethan Park: Ethan, platform engineering. I'll be the person integrating and running tests.
00:16 Ravi Malhotra: Ravi, product, focus on latency and cost tradeoffs.
00:20 Priya Singh: Priya, legal - here for compliance constraints, data residency notes.
00:24 Lena Ortiz: Great, from Redwood I'm Lena, AE; Samir will do the product deep dive and demo; Jules is on product to answer policy questions.
00:33 Samir Patel: Hi all. We'll show Console toggles: route-level storage, selective ejection, regex redaction, KMS settings, and how Optimize recommends less-retentive configs. This is a working demo so you may see some UI lag.
00:47 Maya Chen: Perfect. high-level ask: we cannot store full request text beyond 7 days for European shipments and some US customers. need to redact account numbers and PII before it lands in logs. Also want proof of deletion for audits.
01:05 Samir Patel: Totally reasonable. Walkthrough: first, request-storage at route level. you can set retention policy per route: none, ephemeral, 7d, 30d, or custom. we'll show ephemeral and selective ejection where we drop full request bodies but keep metadata tokens for billing.
01:25 Samir Patel: (screen share) Console > Apps > HarborTech-pilot > Routes. here's our sample webhook route. Notice the toggle 'Request Storage' — off = store nothing, ephemeral = store for the duration of request processing only, On with retention = full stored logs.
01:42 Ethan Park: Is 'ephemeral' zero copies on disk or just short-lived temp? we need to ensure it never persists to S3.
01:48 Samir Patel: Good question. ephemeral means no long-term object store. The runtime uses in-memory buffers and KV caches for processing, those are not written to durable object storage. We also offer an option 'eject-to-customer-s3' which you control. If it's off, nothing is exported.
02:10 Maya Chen: And encryption? we require customer-managed keys for anything that touches our data.
02:15 Samir Patel: We support KMS integration. Under Settings > Keys you can attach a KMS alias. For hosted, Redwood encrypts at rest with our keys by default, but for Private/Dedicated you can mount your key and we restrict KMS access to the environment. Jules, want to add?
02:28 Jules Kwan: just to be explicit: for Dedicated and Private deployments we can integrate AWS KMS or HSM. For hosted, bring-your-own-key is on the roadmap but available via a managed customer key partner — we can add that to the pilot SOW.
02:40 Priya Singh: We also need immutable audit trail of deletions - auditors want proof that logs were purged.
02:45 Samir Patel: We have an Audit Log feature: deletion events, who performed them, and a tamper-evident record. It can be exported and signed. That lives separate from request storage and is retained per org policy.
02:57 Ravi Malhotra: what about automatic redaction? can we define regexes to scrub credit card or account numbers?
03:05 Samir Patel: Yes, under Policy > Redaction you can create rules. Let's demo.
03:10 Samir Patel: (navigates) Add Rule: name "Acct-number-scrub", scope: routes matching /shipments/*, pattern: "(Acct|Account)[:=]\s?\d{8,12}" - action: replace with [REDACTED]. you can test against sample payloads here.
03:33 Ethan Park: Nice. Does that run client-side before the request is sent to the model or server-side?
03:39 Samir Patel: Server-side in the gateway before persisting or forwarding. we also have pre-send hooks if you want to do client-side scrubbing in the SDK, but policy-driven server redaction is good for safety nets.
03:52 Maya Chen: Are those regexes evaluated at line speed? we cannot add significant latency.
03:57 Samir Patel: They're compiled into optimized matchers; in our tests match+replace adds under 6-12ms median per request for typical payloads. If you have high QPS we recommend batching or moving to the Dedicated pool.
04:14 Ethan Park: And for audit we need to capture pre-redaction hashes so we can prove what existed without storing PII. do you support deterministic hashing or salted digests?
04:23 Samir Patel: Yes - on the same rule you can set 'hash-before-redaction' which computes a SHA-256 digest and stores only the digest in the log. We can also salt per-tenant. That gives you deterministic but irreversible mapping for verification.
04:40 Priya Singh: acceptable if salts are under our control?
04:43 Jules Kwan: For Dedicated/private we can store the salt in your KMS/HSM so only you can verify. For hosted, salts are stored in our secure vault, but enterprise offering includes tenant-controlled salts. We'll note that in SOW.
04:58 Samir Patel: Next, selective telemetry ejection: you can configure sample rate and route filters for telemetry export. For example, export 100% for support routes, 0% for payments. This reduces exposure.
05:15 Ravi Malhotra: how granular? per-route? per-customer? per-user?
05:18 Samir Patel: All three. We have attribute-based policies: route, org, header-based. You can also set dynamic rules via tags.
05:26 Maya Chen: show me an example for European shipments only.
05:29 Samir Patel: Sure - create a policy: condition: request.headers.X-Region == EU || payload.flags.country == "DE|FR|ES"; action: retention = 7d, eject = false, redaction = strict. (applies filter).
05:46 Ethan Park: Great. What about the API? we need to toggle at deployment time from infra as code.
05:52 Samir Patel: There's a management API. Quick curl sample: curl -X POST https://api.redwood.ai/v1/orgs/ht/routes/shipments:patch -d '{"retention":"ephemeral","redaction":[{"name":"Acct-number-scrub","hash_before":true}] }' -H 'Authorization: Bearer ...' We also provide terraform provider for route-level policy.
06:18 Maya Chen: we'll need RBAC - only specific personas can change retention.
06:22 Samir Patel: RBAC is under Settings > Access. Roles: Admin, Security, DevOps, Auditor. You can create custom roles and tie to SSO groups via SCIM.
06:33 Priya Singh: SCIM sync with Okta?
06:36 Samir Patel: Yes, SAML SSO and SCIM provisioning for groups.
06:40 Lena Ortiz: jumping in - quick pause for a real-world constraint: HarborTech wants to keep embeddings off-request but still need similarity search for internal product features. Any options?
06:50 Samir Patel: You can disable embedding storage entirely or route embeddings to a customer-managed vector DB. Redwood Optimize can suggest quantization to reduce storage if you need to keep embeddings but want lower cost. For privacy, route embeddings to your own VPC DB.
07:06 Ethan Park: If we route to our VPC DB, does Redwood see them at all?
07:10 Samir Patel: No, if you configure VPC egress and direct streaming to your DB, Redwood's hosted retention can be set to ephemeral and we never persist those vectors. For Dedicated/private it's fully under your network control.
07:22 Maya Chen: show me the logs and audit UI for a deletion event.
07:26 Samir Patel: (navigates) Audit > Actions. here's a sample deletion event: actor: "Ethan Park", action: delete_request_records, target: route/shipments, timestamp, change-id. You can click and download a signed attestment.
07:45 Ethan Park: signed with what?
07:47 Samir Patel: a timestamped signature from our audit service; we also provide a chain-of-custody export. For higher assurance we can arrange attestations backed by HSM keys.
07:58 Priya Singh: For the pilot, we need to run a redaction test where we send 500 sample requests including edge cases and get a post-redaction report. can Redwood do that?
08:07 Samir Patel: yes, we can run a test harness. Ask Ethan to drop the sample payloads in the shared S3/drive. We'll map rules and run the scrub, then produce summary: hits, misses, latency impacts.
08:20 Lena Ortiz: we'll also include a small perf benchmark; Redwood offered to run a 1k QPS simulated run for the shipments route to measure redaction overhead and latencies.
08:28 Ravi Malhotra: cost question: if we choose ephemeral for most routes but onboard Dedicated for high QPS, how does that change unit cost?
08:36 Jules Kwan: Dedicated decouples you from per-token hosted pricing. You get reserved GPU capacity; cost becomes capacity + some per-request overhead. For storage, Dedicated allows you to route to your own object store which lowers hosted storage charges. We'll send a cost model spreadsheet.
08:50 Maya Chen: any gotchas around GDPR deletion requests? we need to prove erasure across backups and caches.
08:57 Samir Patel: We mark deletions in the metadata store and our backup process supports retention-aware scrubbing. For full proof we recommend Dedicated + your KMS salt so only you can map hashed content. We'll include deletion attestations in exports for legal.
09:12 Ethan Park: is there an option to mask in-flight in the SDK so the data never reaches Redwood tokens?
09:18 Samir Patel: yes, client-side masking hooks exist in SDKs. But we recommend defense-in-depth: client mask + server redaction.
09:25 Maya Chen: small note — our legal team will request a network topology showing where logs could flow.
09:30 Lena Ortiz: we'll attach a network flow diagram and the security whitepaper.
09:34 Samir Patel: Also note the Optimize module: it can analyze your call patterns and suggest where to flip retention to ephemeral to save cost with low impact on debugging. it's non-invasive. We'll demo quickly.
09:46 Samir Patel: (Console > Optimize) here's a heatmap: high debug routes in blue, low risk in green. clicking a bucket gives suggested retention flips and estimated monthly savings. you can apply changes directly or run as dry-run.
10:05 Ravi Malhotra: can it auto-apply after approval?
10:08 Samir Patel: There's an approval workflow: proposed change -> security review -> scheduled apply. All audit logged.
10:15 Maya Chen: ok. For pilot success criteria: 1) redaction rules remove PII in 95%+ of sample cases, 2) latencies under 20ms added per request for EU shipments at target QPS, 3) deletion attestations generated for sample sets.
10:30 Lena Ortiz: noted. we'll add those to pilot SOW.
10:35 Priya Singh: need contractual language about inability to reconstitute redacted data and SLAs for deletion.
10:40 Lena Ortiz: we'll loop legal.
10:43 Maya Chen: one off question - the console showed ability to redact JSON keys. can you redact nested JSON fields?
10:49 Samir Patel: yes, policy supports JSON path extraction and redaction by JSONPath (e.g., $.payment.card.number) as well as regex. We'll demo a quick test.
10:59 Samir Patel: (runs live test) sending sample with nested payment.card.number -> redacted to [REDACTED] and digest stored as SHA256. you can see the test result and the matched rule.
11:17 Ethan Park: nice. any known limitations?
11:20 Samir Patel: edge cases: large free-form user text where PII is embedded in natural language can create false negatives; we recommend combining regex + ML-based PII detection. Redwood offers an ML PII model as an add-on for higher recall.
11:35 Maya Chen: add-on pricing?
11:37 Lena Ortiz: we'll include pricing in the follow-up.
11:39 Ravi Malhotra: ok last thing - support model fallbacks. if the primary model is offline and we fallback to a different model, do retention policies follow?
11:46 Samir Patel: policies are route-based and follow the request regardless of model variant. The runtime will honor the policy before model selection.
11:53 Maya Chen: perfect.
11:55 Lena Ortiz: quick recap and next steps: Lena send SOC2 + whitepaper + network diagram; Samir provision sandbox and run redaction test once Ethan uploads sample payloads; team to review pilot SOW and sign-off by 2026-12-30; schedule pilot week of 2027-01-04.
12:18 Maya Chen: that works. Thanks everyone.
12:21 Priya Singh: thanks.
12:22 Lena Ortiz: end.

Auto-generated action-items: see metadata.

Questions captured: "Can regex redaction run at line speed?" "Can we hold salts in our KMS?" "Can Optimize auto-apply retention changes?"

References shared in chat: Security whitepaper (link shared in follow-up), Sandbox invite link (will be sent), Cost model spreadsheet (to be attached).